add additional tutorials (#667)
neo4j/docs-aura: modules/ROOT/pages/tutorials/upgrade.adoc

> = Update a version 4 instance to the latest version

Reviewer: ```suggestion
= Migrate a version 4 instance to the latest version
```

> :description: This tutorial describes how to upgrade an Aura instance running Neo4j version 4 to Neo4j latest.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:description: This tutorial describes how to migrate an Aura instance running Neo4j version 4 to Neo4j latest.
```

> This tutorial describes how to update an Aura instance running Neo4j 4 to the latest version of Neo4j. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This tutorial describes how to migrate an Aura instance running Neo4j 4 to the latest version of Neo4j. 
```

> *Update* will be referred to as *upgrade* from here on, to match terminology used in other documentation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

[NOTE]
====

> * There are very few Aura users running version 4. 
> If that includes you, we’ll have contacted you directly. 
> Otherwise, you’re already up to date.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer: This is not the place for such communication with users.

> * New instances are created running the latest version of Neo4j.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* New instances are created with the latest version of Neo4j.
```

> * The Migration Readiness Report in the Aura console helps Neo4j Aura 4 users assess their usage of Neo4j and easily spot deprecated functionality in their code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The Migration Readiness Report in the Aura console helps Neo4j Aura 4 users assess their usage of Neo4j and what they need to do in order to ready their code for migration.
```

=== Drivers

Neo4j's official drivers have some significant and breaking changes between versions you need to be aware of.
For a smooth migration:

. Check the breaking changes for each driver you use, for example in the link:https://neo4j.com/docs/api/python-driver/5.0/breaking_changes.html#breaking-changes[Python driver] and in the link:https://github.com/neo4j/graph-data-science-client/blob/main/changelog.md[GDS client].
. Make sure you switch to the latest version of the driver in line with the version of the Neo4j database. 
This can be done before upgrading the version of Neo4j that you are using with Aura, as Neo4j latest version drivers are backward compatible.

The link:https://neo4j.com/docs/upgrade-migration-guide/current/version-5/migration/breaking-changes/[Upgrade and migration guide] contains all information and lists all the breaking changes.

=== Indexes

> BTREE indexes have been replaced by RANGE, POINT, and TEXT indexes. 

Author: "BTREE indexes were replaced by RANGE, POINT, and TEXT indexes in Neo4j v5."

=== Indexes

Neo4j 5 replaced b-tree indexes with link:{neo4j-docs-base-uri}/cypher-manual/current/indexes/search-performance-indexes/managing-indexes/#create-range-index[range indexes].

> Before migrating a database, in Neo4j 4, you should create a matching RANGE, POINT, or TEXT index for each b-tree index (or index-backed constraint). 

Reviewer: How is this possible?

Author: https://neo4j.com/docs/cypher-manual/4.4/indexes-for-search-performance/#indexes-future-indexes
https://neo4j.com/docs/operations-manual/4.4/performance/index-configuration/#future-indexes

= Upgrade to Neo4j 5 within Aura

> :description: This tutorial describes how to upgrade an Aura instance running Neo4j version 4 to Neo4j version 5.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:description: This tutorial describes how to upgrade an Aura instance running Neo4j version 4 to Neo4j latest.
```

* Use TEXT indexes if the property value type is `text` and the values can be larger than 8Kb.
* Use TEXT indexes if the property value type is `text` and `CONTAINS` and `ENDS WITH` are used in queries for the property.

After creating the new index, the old index should be dropped. 
The following example shows how to create a new RANGE index and drop an existing `index_name` index:

[source, Cypher, role="noplay"]
----
CREATE RANGE INDEX range_index_name FOR (n:Label) ON (n.prop1);
DROP INDEX index_name;
----

The following example instead shows how to create a constraint backed by a RANGE index:

[source, Cypher, role="noplay"]
----
CREATE CONSTRAINT constraint_with_provider FOR (n:Label) REQUIRE (n.prop1) IS UNIQUE OPTIONS {indexProvider: 'range-1.0'}
----

For more information about creating indexes, see link:https://neo4j.com/docs/cypher-manual/current/indexes-for-search-performance/#administration-indexes-examples[Cypher Manual -> Creating indexes].

=== Cypher updates

Neo4j 5 latest version causes changes to the Cypher syntax and error handling.

==== Cypher syntax

> All changes in the Cypher language syntax are detailed in link:https://neo4j.com/docs/cypher-manual/5/deprecations-additions-removals-compatibility[Cypher Manual -> Removals, deprecations, additions and extensions].

Author: Here, we refer to cypher-manual/5/

[](https://neo4j.com/docs/cypher-manual/5/deprecations-additions-removals-compatibility/)

Reviewer: That is the latest version, I believe. Check with Jens.

Author: Yes! It looks like it! It says **Version 5 (current)** in version picker

Reviewer 2: Cypher 5 is the latest until release of Cypher 25 later this year.

Thoroughly review this section in the version you are moving to and make the necessary changes in your code.

> Here is a short list of the main changes introduced in Neo4j 5:

Author: Can we still refer to the changes in Neo4j 5 like this?

Reviewer: No, it's Neo4j latest.

Author: But they weren't introduced in Neo4j latest - they were introduced in Neo4j 5 
Maybe I can just drop the word **introduced**?

Author: @JPryce-Aklundh how would you approach this one?

Reviewer 2: I would delete this, and just have a link to the page mentioned above. You have only listed changes that were added in 5.0 - but what about 5.1, 5.2 etc? and regardless, what users will care about is feature removals, is anything. So, I ould say this

"For a full list of features removed in Neo4j 5.0, see (link here: https://development.neo4j.dev/docs/cypher-manual/current/deprecations-additions-removals-compatibility/#_removed_features_2). 

(Only 5.0 made breaking changes, more will come with the release coinciding with the release of whatever release coincides with Cypher 25).

Reviewer: We need to check how this works in Aura. A user shouldn't have to worry about Neo4j 5, I _think_ that from their end, they go from 4.x to latest and skip over 5. Behind the scenes, they go via 5 though. The migration readiness report will tell them what to do though.

= Upgrade to Neo4j 5 within Aura
:description: This tutorial describes how to upgrade an Aura instance running Neo4j version 4 to Neo4j latest.

This tutorial describes how to upgrade an Aura instance running Neo4j 4 to Neo4j latest version.

[CAUTION]
====

> All new instances use Neo4j latest version as standard.

Reviewer 2: "...as standard." is a bit confusing to me? can I chose a different alterantive?

```suggestion
New instances are installed with the latest version of Neo4j.
```

Reviewer: No installation in Aura. I'd suggest:
New instances are created with the latest version of Neo4j.

Author: Thanks, changed it to "New instances are created running the latest version of Neo4j."

You can run `SHOW INDEXES` on your Neo4j 4 database to display its indexes.

In most cases, RANGE indexes can replace BTREE. 
However, there might be occasions when a different index type is more suitable, such as:

* Use POINT indexes if the property value type is `point` and `distance` or `bounding box` queries are used for the property.
* Use TEXT indexes if the property value type is `text` and the values can be larger than 8Kb.
* Use TEXT indexes if the property value type is `text` and `CONTAINS` and `ENDS WITH` are used in queries for the property.

After creating the new index, the old index should be dropped. 
The following example shows how to create a new RANGE index and drop an existing `index_name` index:

[source, Cypher, role="noplay"]
----
CREATE RANGE INDEX range_index_name FOR (n:Label) ON (n.prop1);
DROP INDEX index_name;
----

The following example instead shows how to create a constraint backed by a RANGE index:

[source, Cypher, role="noplay"]
----
CREATE CONSTRAINT constraint_with_provider FOR (n:Label) REQUIRE (n.prop1) IS UNIQUE OPTIONS {indexProvider: 'range-1.0'}
----

> For more information about creating indexes, see link:https://neo4j.com/docs/cypher-manual/current/indexes-for-search-performance/#administration-indexes-examples[Cypher Manual -> Creating indexes].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For information about indexes and query performance, see the link: link:{neo4j-docs-base-uri}/cypher-manual/current/indexes/search-performance-indexes/using-indexes/[Cypher Manual -> The impact of indexes on query performance].
```

=== Cypher updates

Neo4j latest version causes changes to the Cypher syntax and error handling.

==== Cypher syntax

All changes in the Cypher language syntax are detailed in link:https://neo4j.com/docs/cypher-manual/5/deprecations-additions-removals-compatibility[Cypher Manual -> Removals, deprecations, additions and extensions].
Thoroughly review this section in the version you are moving to and make the necessary changes in your code.

Here is a short list of the main changes introduced in Neo4j 5:

> [cols="1a,1a", options="header"]
> |===
> |*Deprecated feature*
> |*Details*
> 
> |[source, Cypher, role="noplay"]
> ----
> MATCH (n)-[r:REL]->(m) SET n=r
> ----
> |Use the `properties()` function instead to get the map of properties of nodes/relationships that can then be used in a `SET` clause:
> 
> [source, Cypher, role="noplay"]
> ----
> MATCH (n)-[r:REL]->(m) SET n=properties(r)
> ----
> 
> |[source, Cypher, role="noplay"]
> ----
> MATCH (a), (b), allShortestPaths((a)-[r]->(b)) RETURN b
> 
> MATCH (a), (b), shortestPath((a)-[r]->(b)) RETURN b
> ----
> |`shortestPath` and `allShortestPaths` without link:https://neo4j.com/docs/cypher-manual/5/syntax/patterns/#cypher-pattern-varlength[variable-length relationship] are deprecated. Instead, use a `MATCH` with a `LIMIT` of 1 or:
> [source, Cypher, role="noplay"]
> ----
> MATCH (a), (b), shortestPath((a)-[r*1..1]->(b)) RETURN b
> ----
> 
> |[source, Cypher, role="noplay"]
> ----
> CREATE DATABASE databaseName.withDot ...
> ----
> |Creating a database with unescaped dots in the name has been deprecated, instead escape the database name:
> [source, Cypher, role="noplay"]
> ----
> CREATE DATABASE `databaseName.withDot` ...
> ----
> |===

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

==== Error handling in Cypher

> Many semantic errors that Cypher finds are reported as `Neo.ClientError.Statement.SyntaxError` even though they are semantic and not syntax errors.
> In Neo4j latest version, the metadata returned by Cypher queries is improved.

Reviewer 2: Im not sure what the correct term is but I dont think its "Info"

```suggestion
The following warnings in Neo4j 4.4 have since been changed into....```

* The severity of some of the Warning codes is moved to Info:

** `SubqueryVariableShadowingWarning` -> `SubqueryVariableShadowing`
** `NoApplicableIndexWarning` -> `NoApplicableIndex`
** `CartesianProductWarning` -> `CartesianProduct`
** `DynamicPropertyWarning` -> `DynamicProperty`
** `EagerOperatorWarning` -> `EagerOperator`
** `ExhustiveShortestPathWarning` -> `ExhaustiveShortestPath`
** `UnboundedVariableLengthPatternWarning` -> `UnboundedVariableLengthPattern`
** `ExperimentalFeature` -> `RuntimeExperimental`

=== APOC

> All APOC procedures and functions available in Aura are listed in the link:https://neo4j.com/docs/aura/platform/apoc/[APOC Core library].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Aura contains most but not all functions and procedures contained in the link:{neo4j-docs-base-uri}/apoc/current[APOC Core] library.
All APOC procedures and functions available in Aura are listed in the link:https://neo4j.com/docs/aura/platform/apoc/[APOC Core library].
```

> See the link:https://neo4j.com/docs/apoc/5/[APOC documentation] for further details.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```
